# MGG Data Driven Vignette

**Mapping the Gay Guides** is a digital history project developed by Dr. [Amanda Regan](https://github.com/regan008), assistant professor of History in the Department of History and Geography at Clemson University, and Dr. [Eric Gonzaba](https://amst.fullerton.edu/faculty/e_gonzaba.aspx), assistant professor of American Studies at California State University at Fullerton. The project aims to map the information contained in Bob Damron’s Address Books that circulated between 1964 and 2021 to understand the extension of the queer landscape in the United States in the late twentieth century and how it has changed over time. The Damron Guides helped queer people, and in particular gay men, in identifying safe spaces of community, pleasure, and politics across the United States. Since the project’s launching in 2020, thousands of the listings in the guides have been turned into manipulable data sets that currently range from 1965 to 1980. These data sets have been used to create an [interactive visualization](https://www.mappingthegayguides.org/viz/map/) that allow users to explore the types of gay locations across the country and the changes in the queer landscape over time. The persistence of the guidebooks for nearly six decades, as the project demonstrates, suggests an active queer travel community that existed beyond the gay meccas of San Francisco and New York.

Through the Graduate Summer Research Fellowship, the Humanities Hub at Clemson University is supporting the research and writing of a data driven vignette meant to disseminate the deliverables of Mapping the Gay Guides to historians, humanities researchers, and other scholars using computational methodologies. Data driven vignettes can provide researchers with examples of how the project’s data and visualizations, as well as digital methodologies more broadly, can be used to present new historical interpretation and argumentation. The vignette will be produced and co-authored by the project’s co-PI, Dr. Amanda Regan and the project's data manager, Lucas Avelar.
